README.rst, before:

Requirements
############

* doxygen (run `doxygen` in the graphene source to generate required files)
* graphviz
* sphinx (http://sphinx-doc.org)
* breathe (https://github.com/michaeljones/breathe)

Quick Install in OSX
********************

It's easy to get started on OSX using brew and easy_install.

.. code:: sh

   brew install doxygen
   brew install graphviz

   easy_install sphinx
   easy_install breathe

Building
########

.. code:: sh

    make html

Output
#######

The resulting html files will be writen to `build/html`.

Deployment
##########

The Makefile can automatically deploy to several domains. Currently, a
deployment installs the page simultanisouly at

 * docs.bitshares.org
 * docs.bitshares.eu

.. code:: sh

   git remote set-url origin github:BitSharesEurope/docs.bitshares.eu 
   git remote     add org    github:BitSharesEurope/docs.bitshares.org
   make deploy

Updating doxygen (optional)
###########################

in `doxygen/` there are filed that have been generated by
bitshares/graphene C++ code using doxygen. If you want to update them,
run `doxygen` in bitshares and move over the `xml` folder in `doxygen/`.

Commit message:

Update README: deprecate the repository

README.rst, after:

This repository is deprecated. The new repository is https://github.com/bitshares/how.bitshares.works

Requirements
############

* doxygen (run `doxygen` in the graphene source to generate required files)
* graphviz
* sphinx (http://sphinx-doc.org)
* breathe (https://github.com/michaeljones/breathe)

Quick Install in OSX
********************

It's easy to get started on OSX using brew and easy_install.

.. code:: sh

   brew install doxygen
   brew install graphviz

   easy_install sphinx
   easy_install breathe

Building
########

.. code:: sh

    make html

Output
#######

The resulting html files will be writen to `build/html`.

Deployment
##########

The Makefile can automatically deploy to several domains. Currently, a
deployment installs the page simultanisouly at

 * docs.bitshares.org
 * docs.bitshares.eu

.. code:: sh

   git remote set-url origin github:BitSharesEurope/docs.bitshares.eu 
   git remote     add org    github:BitSharesEurope/docs.bitshares.org
   make deploy

Updating doxygen (optional)
###########################

in `doxygen/` there are filed that have been generated by
bitshares/graphene C++ code using doxygen. If you want to update them,
run `doxygen` in bitshares and move over the `xml` folder in `doxygen/`.
