source/migration/howto-importing-wallet.rst, before:

*********************
Importing Your Wallet
*********************

Web Wallet
##########

The web wallet of BitShares 2.0 has a **Wallet management Console.** that will
help you import your funds. It can be access via `BitShares 2.0: Settings -> Wallets` 

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console.png
        :alt: Wallet Management Console in BitShares 2.0
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

In order to import your existing accounts and claim all your funds you need to
choose ``Import Keys``.

.. note:: If loading the file files with ``invalid format`` please ensure that
   you have followed the steps described :doc:`howto-exporting-wallet` and make
   sure to click ``Import Keys`` and **not** ``Restore Backup``.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-import-keys.png
        :alt: Wallet Management Console in BitShares 2.0 -- Import Keys
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

Here you can provide the wallet backup file produced from BitShares 0.9.3c and
the pass phrase. Depending on the size of your import file, this step may take
some time to auto-complete. Please be patient.

.. image:: ../static/import-keys.png
        :alt: Import Wallet Backup from BitShares 1.0
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

The wallet will list all of your accounts including the number of private keys
stored in the account names accordingly. The more often you have used your
account, the higher this number should be. Confirm by pressing ``Import``.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-imported-keys.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

The wallet management console will now give an overview over unclaimed balances.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-claim-balances.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

If you click on ``Balance Claim`` you will be brought to this screen.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-claiming-balances.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

You are asked to define where to put your individual balances if you have
multiple accounts.

After confirming all required steps, your accounts and the balances should
appear accordingly.

.. note:: After importing your accounts and balances, we recommend to make a
          new backup of your wallet that will then contain access to your newly
          imported accounts and corresponding balances.

CLI wallet
##########

The wallet backup file can be imported by ::

    import_accounts <path to exported json> <password of wallet you exported from>

Note that this doesn't automatically claim the balances. 

Claiming Balances
*****************

For each account ``<my_account_name>`` in your wallet (run ``list_my_accounts`` to see them):::

    import_account_keys /path/to/keys.json <my_password> <my_account_name> <my_account_name>

.. note:: In the release tag, this will create a full backup of the wallet after every key it imports.
   If you have thousands of keys, this is quite slow and also takes up a lot of disk space.
   Monitor your free disk space during the import and, if necessary,
   periodically erase the backups to avoid filling your disk. The latest code
   only saves your wallet after all keys have been imported.  


To verify the results, you can run:::

     import_balance <my_account_name> ["*"] true
     list_account_balances <my_account_name>

Manually claim balances
***********************

Balances can be imported one by one. The proper syntax to do so is::

    import_balance <account name> <private key> true

But I always import my accounts and then use the GUI to import my balances cause
it's way easier.

Commit message:

Clarify on cli_wallet claiming procwdure

source/migration/howto-importing-wallet.rst, after:

*********************
Importing Your Wallet
*********************

Web Wallet
##########

The web wallet of BitShares 2.0 has a **Wallet management Console.** that will
help you import your funds. It can be access via `BitShares 2.0: Settings -> Wallets` 

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console.png
        :alt: Wallet Management Console in BitShares 2.0
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

In order to import your existing accounts and claim all your funds you need to
choose ``Import Keys``.

.. note:: If loading the file files with ``invalid format`` please ensure that
   you have followed the steps described :doc:`howto-exporting-wallet` and make
   sure to click ``Import Keys`` and **not** ``Restore Backup``.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-import-keys.png
        :alt: Wallet Management Console in BitShares 2.0 -- Import Keys
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

Here you can provide the wallet backup file produced from BitShares 0.9.3c and
the pass phrase. Depending on the size of your import file, this step may take
some time to auto-complete. Please be patient.

.. image:: ../static/import-keys.png
        :alt: Import Wallet Backup from BitShares 1.0
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

The wallet will list all of your accounts including the number of private keys
stored in the account names accordingly. The more often you have used your
account, the higher this number should be. Confirm by pressing ``Import``.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-imported-keys.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

The wallet management console will now give an overview over unclaimed balances.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-claim-balances.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

If you click on ``Balance Claim`` you will be brought to this screen.

.. image:: ../static/wallet-management-console-claiming-balances.png
        :alt: Import accounts
        :width: 550px
        :align: center

You are asked to define where to put your individual balances if you have
multiple accounts.

After confirming all required steps, your accounts and the balances should
appear accordingly.

.. note:: After importing your accounts and balances, we recommend to make a
          new backup of your wallet that will then contain access to your newly
          imported accounts and corresponding balances.

CLI wallet
##########

The wallet backup file can be imported by ::

    import_accounts <path to exported json> <password of wallet you exported from>

Note that this doesn't automatically claim the balances. 

Claiming Balances
*****************

For each account ``<my_account_name>`` in your wallet (run ``list_my_accounts`` to see them):::

    import_account_keys /path/to/keys.json <my_password> <my_account_name> <my_account_name>

.. note:: In the release tag, this will create a full backup of the wallet after every key it imports.
   If you have thousands of keys, this is quite slow and also takes up a lot of disk space.
   Monitor your free disk space during the import and, if necessary,
   periodically erase the backups to avoid filling your disk. The latest code
   only saves your wallet after all keys have been imported.  

The command above will only import your keys into the wallet and will **not**
claim your funds. In order to claim the funds you need to execute:::

     import_balance <my_account_name> ["*"] true

.. note:: If you would like to preview this claiming transaction, you can
   replace the ``true`` with a ``false``. That way, the transaction will not be
   broadcast.

To verify the results, you can run:::

     list_account_balances <my_account_name>

Manually claim balances
***********************

Balances can be imported one by one. The proper syntax to do so is::

    import_balance <account name> <private key> true

But I always import my accounts and then use the GUI to import my balances cause
it's way easier.
