source/bitshares/user/account-memberships.rst, before:

***********
Memberships
***********

Accounts in BitShares are separated into three groups. We decided to give users
the option to upgrade their accounts into a VIP-like status if they desire and
profit from reduced fees and additional features.

Membership Groups
#################

Non-Members
***********

A *regular* account is a *non-member*.

Lifetime Members
****************

Lifetime Members get a percentage cashback on every transaction fee they pay
and qualify to earn referral income from users they register with or referer to
the network. A Lifetime membership is associated with a certain one-time fee
that is defined by the committee.

Anual Members
*************

If a lifetime membership is too much you can still get the same cashback for the
next year by becoming an annual subscriber for a smaller one-time fee which
lasts for only one year.

Fees
####

Every time an account you referred pays a transaction fee, that fee is divided
among several different accounts. The network takes a cut, and the Lifetime
Member who referred the account gets a cut.

The registrar is the account that paid the transaction fee to register the
account with the network. The registrar gets to decide how to divide the
remaining fee between themselves and their own affiliate.

Pending Fees
************

Fees paid are only divided among the network, referrers, and registrars once
every maintenance interval.

Vesting Fees
************

Most fees are made available immediately, but fees over the vesting threshold
(such as those paid to upgrade your membership or register a premium account
name) must vest for some days as defined by the committee.

Commit message:

Anual fee is LTM fee + a vesting balance

source/bitshares/user/account-memberships.rst, after:

***********
Memberships
***********

Accounts in BitShares are separated into three groups. We decided to give users
the option to upgrade their accounts into a VIP-like status if they desire and
profit from reduced fees and additional features.

Membership Groups
#################

Non-Members
***********

A *regular* account is a *non-member*.

Lifetime Members
****************

Lifetime Members get a percentage cashback on every transaction fee they pay
and qualify to earn referral income from users they register with or referer to
the network. A Lifetime membership is associated with a certain one-time fee
that is defined by the committee.

Anual Members
*************

If a lifetime membership is too much you can still get the same cashback for the
next year by becoming an annual subscriber for a smaller one-time fee which
lasts for only one year.

.. note:: 

  Technically, the fees that you pay stay the same, but a part of the
  fees is refunded in the form of a *vesting balance*.Once the fees have
  vested you can withdraw them. To see your vesting balances, go to your
  "Account" tab, then click on "vesting balances" at the bottom left.
  Vesting balances are recalculated hourly, so you might not yet see
  them right away.

Fees
####

Every time an account you referred pays a transaction fee, that fee is divided
among several different accounts. The network takes a cut, and the Lifetime
Member who referred the account gets a cut.

The registrar is the account that paid the transaction fee to register the
account with the network. The registrar gets to decide how to divide the
remaining fee between themselves and their own affiliate.

Pending Fees
************

Fees paid are only divided among the network, referrers, and registrars once
every maintenance interval.

Vesting Fees
************

Most fees are made available immediately, but fees over the vesting threshold
(such as those paid to upgrade your membership or register a premium account
name) must vest for some days as defined by the committee.
