source/api/websocket.rst, before:

*******************************
Websocket Calls & Notifications
*******************************

Overview
########

The following will show the usage of websocket connections. We make use of the
``wscat`` application available via ``npm``:

.. code-block::

    npm install -g wscat

A non-restricted call against a full-node would take the form:

.. code-block:: sh
    
    wscat -c ws://127.0.0.1:8090
    > {"id":1, "method":"call", "params":[0,"get_accounts",[["1.2.0"]]]}
    < {"id":1,"result":[{"id":"1.2.0","annotations":[],"membership_expiration_date":"1969-12-31T23:59:59","registrar":"1.2.0","referrer":"1.2.0","lifetime_referrer":"1.2.0","network_fee_percentage":2000,"lifetime_referrer_fee_percentage":8000,"referrer_rewards_percentage":0,"name":"committee-account","owner":{"weight_threshold":1,"account_auths":[],"key_auths":[],"address_auths":[]},"active":{"weight_threshold":6,"account_auths":[["1.2.5",1],["1.2.6",1],["1.2.7",1],["1.2.8",1],["1.2.9",1],["1.2.10",1],["1.2.11",1],["1.2.12",1],["1.2.13",1],["1.2.14",1]],"key_auths":[],"address_auths":[]},"options":{"memo_key":"GPH1111111111111111111111111111111114T1Anm","voting_account":"1.2.0","num_witness":0,"num_committee":0,"votes":[],"extensions":[]},"statistics":"2.7.0","whitelisting_accounts":[],"blacklisting_accounts":[]}]}

Requesting API access
#####################

Before we can subscribe to any object changes and get notified automatically,
we first need to ask for access to the ``database``-api with::

    > {"id":2,"method":"call","params":[0,"database",[]]}
    < {"id":2,"result":1}

The ``result`` will be our ``DATABASE_API_ID``!

Notifications
#############

In Graphene, we have the following subscriptions available:

* ``set_subscribe_callback( cb, bool clear_filter )``:
     To simplify development a global subscription callback can be registered.
* ``set_pending_transaction_callback(  cb )``:
     Notifications for incoming *unconfirmed* transactions.
* ``set_block_applied_callback( blockid )``:
     Gives a notification whenever the block ``blockid`` is applied to the
     blockchain.

Let's first get a global scubscription callback to disctinguish our
notifications from regular RPC calls:::

    > {"id":4,"method":"call","params":[DATABASE_API_ID,"set_subscribe_callback",[SUBSCRIPTION_ID]]}

This call above will register ``SUBSCRIPTION_ID`` as id for notifications.

Now, whenever you get an object from the witness (e.g. via ``get_objects``) you
will automatically subscribe to any future changes of that object.

After calling ``set_subscribe_callback`` the witness will start to send notices
every time the object changes:::

    < {
        "method": "notice"
        "params": [
            SUBSCRIPTION_ID, 
            [[
                { "id": "2.1.0", ...  },
                { "id": ...  },
                { "id": ...  },
                { "id": ...  }
            ]]
        ], 
    }

Example Session
###############

Here is an example of a full session:::

    > {"id":1,"method":"call","params":[0,"login",["",""]]}
    < {"id":1,"result":true}
    > {"id":2,"method":"call","params":[0,"database",[]]}
    < {"id":2,"result":1}
    > {"id":3,"method":"call","params":[1,"set_subscribe_callback",[200]]}
    < {"id":3,"result":true}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"2033120557c36e278db2eaad818494f791ff4d7b0418858a7ab9b5a8","head_block_number":5,"head_block_id":"00000005171f82f1b6bd948e7d58d95e572001fd","time":"2015-05-01T13:05:50","current_witness":"1.7.5","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"9d5ff7e453db4815005eb42ddd040e3afb459950f75f4440deb3dec0","head_block_number":6,"head_block_id":"000000060e3369d6feaf330ea9114cd855c93aab","time":"2015-05-01T13:05:55","current_witness":"1.7.3","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"cb8686582c40634a0c0834d0f2c4ad19f8ca80598cc3eee2b93c124d","head_block_number":7,"head_block_id":"000000071d0bc8db55d7da75d1d880818d1930fd","time":"2015-05-01T13:06:00","current_witness":"1.7.0","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}

Commit message:

WS login before accesing database ...

source/api/websocket.rst, after:

*******************************
Websocket Calls & Notifications
*******************************

Overview
########

The following will show the usage of websocket connections. We make use of the
``wscat`` application available via ``npm``:

.. code-block::

    npm install -g wscat

A non-restricted call against a full-node would take the form:

.. code-block:: sh
    
    wscat -c ws://127.0.0.1:8090
    > {"id":1, "method":"call", "params":[0,"get_accounts",[["1.2.0"]]]}
    < {"id":1,"result":[{"id":"1.2.0","annotations":[],"membership_expiration_date":"1969-12-31T23:59:59","registrar":"1.2.0","referrer":"1.2.0","lifetime_referrer":"1.2.0","network_fee_percentage":2000,"lifetime_referrer_fee_percentage":8000,"referrer_rewards_percentage":0,"name":"committee-account","owner":{"weight_threshold":1,"account_auths":[],"key_auths":[],"address_auths":[]},"active":{"weight_threshold":6,"account_auths":[["1.2.5",1],["1.2.6",1],["1.2.7",1],["1.2.8",1],["1.2.9",1],["1.2.10",1],["1.2.11",1],["1.2.12",1],["1.2.13",1],["1.2.14",1]],"key_auths":[],"address_auths":[]},"options":{"memo_key":"GPH1111111111111111111111111111111114T1Anm","voting_account":"1.2.0","num_witness":0,"num_committee":0,"votes":[],"extensions":[]},"statistics":"2.7.0","whitelisting_accounts":[],"blacklisting_accounts":[]}]}

Requesting API access
#####################

The first thing we need to do is to *login*::

    > {"id":2,"method":"call","params":[0,"login",["",""]]}
    < {"id":2,"result":true}

If you have :doc:`restricted access <./access>` then you may be required to put
your ``username`` and ``pasword`` into the quotes, accordinly. Furthermore, you
should verify, that the ``result`` give positive confirmation about your login.

Before we can subscribe to any object changes and get notified automatically,
we first need to ask for access to the ``database``-api with::

    > {"id":2,"method":"call","params":[0,"database",[]]}
    < {"id":2,"result":1}

The ``result`` will be our ``DATABASE_API_ID``!

Notifications
#############

In Graphene, we have the following subscriptions available:

* ``set_subscribe_callback( cb, bool clear_filter )``:
     To simplify development a global subscription callback can be registered.
* ``set_pending_transaction_callback(  cb )``:
     Notifications for incoming *unconfirmed* transactions.
* ``set_block_applied_callback( blockid )``:
     Gives a notification whenever the block ``blockid`` is applied to the
     blockchain.

Let's first get a global scubscription callback to disctinguish our
notifications from regular RPC calls:::

    > {"id":4,"method":"call","params":[DATABASE_API_ID,"set_subscribe_callback",[SUBSCRIPTION_ID]]}

This call above will register ``SUBSCRIPTION_ID`` as id for notifications.

Now, whenever you get an object from the witness (e.g. via ``get_objects``) you
will automatically subscribe to any future changes of that object.

After calling ``set_subscribe_callback`` the witness will start to send notices
every time the object changes:::

    < {
        "method": "notice"
        "params": [
            SUBSCRIPTION_ID, 
            [[
                { "id": "2.1.0", ...  },
                { "id": ...  },
                { "id": ...  },
                { "id": ...  }
            ]]
        ], 
    }

Example Session
###############

Here is an example of a full session:::

    > {"id":1,"method":"call","params":[0,"login",["",""]]}
    < {"id":1,"result":true}
    > {"id":2,"method":"call","params":[0,"database",[]]}
    < {"id":2,"result":1}
    > {"id":3,"method":"call","params":[1,"set_subscribe_callback",[200]]}
    < {"id":3,"result":true}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"2033120557c36e278db2eaad818494f791ff4d7b0418858a7ab9b5a8","head_block_number":5,"head_block_id":"00000005171f82f1b6bd948e7d58d95e572001fd","time":"2015-05-01T13:05:50","current_witness":"1.7.5","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"9d5ff7e453db4815005eb42ddd040e3afb459950f75f4440deb3dec0","head_block_number":6,"head_block_id":"000000060e3369d6feaf330ea9114cd855c93aab","time":"2015-05-01T13:05:55","current_witness":"1.7.3","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}
    < {"method":"notice","params":[200,[[{"id":"2.1.0","random":"cb8686582c40634a0c0834d0f2c4ad19f8ca80598cc3eee2b93c124d","head_block_number":7,"head_block_id":"000000071d0bc8db55d7da75d1d880818d1930fd","time":"2015-05-01T13:06:00","current_witness":"1.7.0","next_maintenance_time":"2015-05-02T00:00:00"}]]]}
